# Mexican-Plague-prediction

As an epidemic broke out in New Mexico and quickly spread across its cities, the goal was to build a predictive model to understand its evolution and accurately predict who is most likely to survive it. Hence, the methodology comprises the data split into train and test, followed by the pre-processing, feature engineering and selection, modeling phases to test out different predictive algorithms, validation, and a final stage to have the selected model set for submission.

It was apparent that the lower the severity, the higher the medical expenses. In fact, it was possible to understand that there was a lack of medical tents, which might have been one of the causes of the disease and might have led to an increased probability of death. Further findings also suggested that the class of patients most affected by the plague were the youngest ones representing a determinant factor. After trying several algorithms such as logistic regression, KNN, Decision trees, Random Forest, SVM, Stacking, and others the algorithm that secured the best scores was the Neural Network and, therefore, the selected algorithm for the classification model. After making the predictions from the test dataset, the model classified 68% of the patients as deceased and 32% as not deceased.

The goal of this project was to develop a reliable classifier that would be able to identify patients who would or would not die from the Mexican plague. With this information could be possible to understand how the disease develops, enabling the allocation of the right resources to the right people in order to save as many lives as possible. Since these results represent a great responsibility, it was very important to understand our data and make the best use of it.
